Bolognese Sauce.  Version 2:

Mise en place
3 finely chopped medium onions
3 finely chopped carrots
2 sticks celery, finely chopped
4 cloves of garlic, minced

50g butter

800g minced beef

300g spiced pork (see below)

1 bottle red wine

4 tbsp tomato puree

100ml milk

Spiced pork:
Grind 300g of kastikeliha and mix with the following:
6g salt
1 tsp fennel seeds
1 tsp paprika
1 tbsp chili flakes
1 tsp dried oregano
1 tsp dried basilika

Firing:
Put 3 tbsp olive oil and 50g butter into a large saucepan and heat on low until the butter is melted. Add the chopped onions, carrots, celery and garlic, along with about a teaspoon of salt and cook on low for about 30 minutes, stirring, until most of the water has evapourated. The vegetables should not brown or burn.

Add the pork mix and about 800g of beef mince along with a teaspoon of salt and some freshly cracked black pepper to the pan and mix well. Continue to cook on a low heat while mixing. Water should come out of the meat as it starts to cook.  At this point you may optionally add some finely chopped mushrooms.  Continue to cook slowly with the lid off as the water evaporates, stirring occasionally.  Once most of the water has evaporated, you will hear a crackling sound as the fat starts to render out of the meat. At this point, stir the mixture and then place a lid on the pan. Continue to cook, stirring every 5 minutes or so until there is a noticeable amount of oil present in the bottom of the pan after leaving for 5 minutes, and there are plenty of dark brown crunchy bits of meat on the bottom.

Move the meat aside and add about 4 tbsp (half a tube) of tomato puree to the bottom of the pan, into the oil. Stir the puree in the oil briefly and then mix it into the meat mixture. Place the lid back on the pan and allow to cook for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. As the tomato puree cooks you will notice a strong tomato fragrance. At the end of this process, there will be some caramelization on the bottom of the pan.

Deglaze the pan with about 100ml of milk and stir in. Allow the liquid to reduce while stirring. This shouldn't take long at all.

Add about a bottle of red wine to the pan and stir while allowing the liquid to reduce and the alcohol to boil off. Cook on a low heat with the lid most of the way on the pan until the sauce has reduced and thickened (about 30 minutes).  Switch off the heat, put the lid all the way on and allow to sit.
