Chicken Biryani

Chicken Legs, skin removed, 1kg

Yoghurt 300ml

5 tbsp Fresh chopped mint leaves
5 tbsp Fresh chopped coriander leaves
2 tbsp chopped green chilis
1 lime

2 tbsp ginger-garlic paste

Fried onions

Biryani masala:

Grind the following into a powder
3 bay leaves
3 whole star anise
12 black pepper corns
4cm piece cinnamon
4 pieces mace
1 teaspoon cloves
8 cardamom pods
1 teaspoon cumin seeds

Add the following to this mixture:
1 tbsp cumin powder
2 tbsp chili powder
2 tbsp coriander powder
1/2 tsp turmeric powder
1 tbsp salt

Preparation:
Make the biryani masala powder as shown above.

Place the chicken pieces in a bowl and add the biryani masala powder, yoghurt, 3 tbsp of each of the mint and coriander leaves, green chilis, ginger-garlic paste, the juice from half a lime and about 3 tbsp cooking oil. Mix well, ensuring that all sides of the chicken pieces are covered well. Leave overnight to marinate.

Soak 300g basmati rice in water for 1 hour.
In a small cup, heat about 2 tbsp milk in the microwave. Add a few threads of saffron to the milk, stir and let infuse.

Mix 2 tbsp fried onions into the marinated chicken and place the chicken plus marinade into a pan. Arrange the chicken such that all pieces are touching the bottom.

Start a pot of water boiling. Add 2 tbsp oil and salt the water. Add 2 bay leaves and 1 tsp cumin seeds. Add the soaked rice to the boiling water and let it cook until about half done. This should only take a few minutes. When the rice is half done, take it off the heat and start adding the rice on top of the chicken directly from the cooking water using a slotted spoon. Once there is an even layer on top of the chicken, sprinkle some mint, coriander and fried onions onto the rice. Then continue, adding a second layer. Sprinkle fried onions, coriander and mint on the top.

Drizzle the saffron-infused milk onto the rice. Drizzle 1-tsp of rose water and kewra water onto the rice. Optionally, drizzle some ghee onto the rice.

Create a simple dough using a few tablespoons worth of flour and some water.  Roll the dough into a long strand about 1cm thick and stick the dough onto the rim of the pan such that it goes all the way around. Place the lid on the pan and squash it down to create a seal with the dough. Optionally, you can add some weight on the lid also.

Start the pan on high heat for about 5 minutes (until you see steam) and then cook on low for about 30 minutes. After the 30 minutes is up, switch off the heat and allow the pan to sit for about 10 minutes before opening the lid and removing the dough. Check the biryani by carefully digging rice from the side using a spatula. The rice grains should be separate from each other and the meat should be browned where it was in contact with the bottom of the pan, but not burned to the bottom.
