Chinese Kylkipalat, Version 2:

Mise en place
600g kastikeliha

1 tbsp finely chopped garlic
1 tbsp finely chopped ginger

100g sugar snap peas or fresh green beans cut into 3cm pieces
1 medium onion cut into 1/2cm wedges

1 bunch freash coriander chopped

Marinade:
3 tbsp maple syrup
1 tsp fennel seeds, lightly crushed
1 tsp szechuan pepper corns
2 star anise

Sauce:
4 tbsp sugar
1 tbsp dark soy
1 tbsp light soy
4 tbsp red wine

Firing
Place the kastkeliha with the marinade in a plastic bag and leave overnight.

Mix the sauce ingredients in a pan until simmering, allowing the sauce to
slightly reduce. Set aside.

Tip the marinated kastikeliha into a baking tray. Make sure to lay the pieces flat. Place the tray into an oven at about 150C and allow to cook. After about 20 minutes, there will be a lot of water in the tray, so take the tray out of the oven and tip some of the water away (such that a small amount remains at the bottom). Continue to cook the pork slowly in the oven. When the top of the pork looks caramelized, turn it over and cook the other side. This will probably take more than an hour. Once the liquid has gone and the pork is caramelized on the other side, take the tray out of the oven and allow it to cool. Then cut the strips into 3cm pieces.

Heat 3 tbsp oil in a wok until it is shimmering. Add a good handful of dried red chilis to the oil (you may break the chilis into pieces if you wish). After the chilis become fragrant and start to darken (probably about 30 seconds) add the ginger, garlic and chili mixture to the oil. Cook while stirring for about a minute. Add the onion and peas/beans and stir fry for about one minute. Add the pork pieces and mix. Add the sauce and mix. Garnish with coriander leaves.


Chinese Chicken variation

A variation of this recipe substitutes the pork pieces with crispy chicken. Make the crispy chicken as follows:

Cut boneless skinless chicken breast or thigh pieces into 1-2cm cubes. Sprinkle the chicken with 5-spice powder and a little salt. Heat a few centimeters of oil in a wok until moderately hot. Dip the chicken pieces in egg and then cornstarch and drop into the oil, frying in small batches until the batter starts to brown. Remove and set aside on kitchen paper.

If making this recipe with chicken, increase the volume of the sauce appropriately and add a little cornstarch to the sauce to allow it to thicken quicker. Alternatively, make a quick sweet and sour sauce as follows:

Put 1 tea mug worth of chicken stock into a bowl and add 2 tbsp sugar, 2 tbsp soy sauce, 2 tbsp vinegar and 1 tbsp corn starch. Mix well and start heating in a wok. As this is heating, add the following:
Half a medium onion, roughly chopped
2 Tomatoes, roughly chopped, including the seeds
About 1/3 of a cucumber, cut into cubes
A teaspoon of finely chopped garlic
A teaspoon of finely chopped ginger
A teaspoon of finely chopped hot chili

Allow the mixture to cook for 5 - 10 minutes and leave to cool. Strain the vegetables out and set aside for use later.
