Chicken Gumbo recipe

Mise en place
2 green peppers, finely chopped
2 red peppers, finely chopped
4 medium sized onions, finely chopped
4 sticks celery finely chopped
10 fresh red chili peppers, finely chopped

6 chicken legs and thighs

300g chorizo cut into 1cm pieces on the diagonal

White flour

1 liter chicken stock

1 tbsp dried thyme
1 tbsp smoked paprika

Hot sauce

Firing
Season and sear off 6 chicken legs and thighs on all sides in a hot pan with oil and set aside. Fry the chorizo pieces until crispy in the oil left over from frying the chicken. Set aside. Save the remaining oil and clean out the pan.

Put one cup of cooking oil, plus the oil set aside from the previous step and one cup of white flour into a large saucepan, mix well and start heating the pan gently. Stir the mixture constantly while heating gently, allowing the mixture to cook slowly until it becomes the colour of chocolate. This should take about 45 minutes. When the roux is ready, add the chopped vegetables to the roux and continue to cook on moderate heat while constantly stirring, for about 15 minutes, alllowing the vegetables to break down well.

Add 1 litre of chicken stock to the pan and stir well. Add the seared chicken pieces and top up with stock until the chicken is submerged. Add a teaspoon of dried thyme, a teaspoon of smoke paprike and hot sauce of your choice to taste.

Allow the soup to simmer for 30 minutes, until the chicken is tender and falling off the bone. Remove the chicken pieces with tongs and pull the meat off the bones. Return the chicken meat to the pan along with the fried chorizo pieces. Allow to simmer for a while longer to develop flavour. Serve in bowls with freshly made biscuits.

Biscuits
Put 1 cup flour, 1 tsp baking powder, and 1 tsp salt into a bowl and rub butter into the flour until a crumb is formed. Add small amounts of milk at a time until the mixture forms a ball of dough. Place the dough on a floured surface and pat out a rectangle shape a couple of centimeters thick. Roll it slightly with a rolling pin during this step to get it even. Cut circles from the dough using a cutter and place them on a baking tray covered in baking paper. reshape the remaining dough and cut more circles until the dough it used up. Bake at 200C until the biscuits rise slightly and are very slightly browned on the top (probably about 10 minutes).
