New Bamboo Center Chicken Curry

Hot Sauce:
Put the following ingredients into a blender and blend until smooth:
1 medium size onion, chopped coarsely
5 cloves garlic
6 fresh small red chilis, halved
12 dried red chilis, rehydrated in hot water, halved
2 tsp turmeric powder
3 tablespoons chili flakes
2/3 stick of lemongrass, bashed up and chopped finely
5 tbsp cooking oil (roughly speaking, add more if needed to blend)

Put the paste into a wok on medium heat and cook, stirring often for about 15 minutes, until the paste darkens and the oil starts to separate. At this point, add 1-2 tbsp sugar and the juice of one lime and salt to season and cook for a minute or two longer and pour the sauce into a bowl.

Pre-cooked chicken:
Whisk together the following ingredients:
1 egg white
2 tsp Sake
1 tbsp Corn starch
1 tsp Salt

Cut 800g of chicken breast pieces into thin strips and place into the above marinade.  Mix thoroughly, cover and leave in the fridge for at least 30 minutes.

Heat about 600ml water mixed with 1 tbsp cooking oil in a wok until boiling.
Using a slotted spoon, put a portion of the chicken into the boiling water and
stir briefly to ensure the pieces don't stick together. Allow the water to come
to a boil again and let it boil for about 1 minute. Remove the chicken pieces
with a slotted spoon and place in a colander to drain. Repeat until all the
chicken has been cooked.

The curry:
Heat about 3 tbsp cooking oil in a wok until hot and add the following to the
hot oil:
4 chopped cloves garlic
1 thumb-sized piece of ginger, chopped
6 fresh small red chilis, chopped
6 fresh small green chilis, chopped

After about 30 seconds of cooking, add the following:
1 green pepper, chopped coarsely
1 red pepper, chopped coarsely
1 large onion, chopped coarsely

Mix well and stir fry for about 1 minute. Add the following to the wok:
1/2 small packet of frozen baby carrots (thawed)
1/2 small packed of frozen green beans (thawed)
1 small can of chopped mushrooms (drained of liquid)
1 small can of bamboo shoots (drained of liquid)
1/3 cucumber cut into strips
800g pre-cooked chicken

Mix well while allowing the wok to heat up again. Add about 2 tsp curry powder and about 2-3 tbsp of the hot sauce prepared above and mix well. At this point you may also add additional chili flakes or some other hot sauce to taste. Add 1-2 cans of coconut milk (depending on desired amount of liquid). Add 2-3 tbsp soy sauce (to taste) and the juice of 1 lime.

Mix well and serve over rice, garnishing with the hot sauce.
