Roast Chicken recipe

The Carrots:
Peel 2kg of carrots. If the carrots are large, cut them lengthwise into thinner sticks, such that they are all roughly the same thickness.

Preheat a baking dish to 225C in the oven. Take the dish out and place some cubes of butter on the dish. The butter will sizzle and melt. Place the carrots onto the baking dish and mix them around to cover them in butter. Drizzle honey onto the carrots and sprinkle salt and dried thyme. Return the baking dish to the oven and cook the carrots at 225C for about 30-45 minutes, turning occasionally until they are soft and have some caramelization on them.

The Potatoes:
Peel 2kg potatoes and cut them into equal sizes, about the size of a golf ball. The best way to do this is to buy the right sized potatoes so that they are either this size already ot can be easily cut in half to approach this size. Place the peeled potatoes into a large saucepan and cover them with cold water. Add salt and place the lid on the pan. Bring the water to the boil and cook the potatoes for a good 15-20 minutes.

Drain the water from the pan, leaving the potatoes in the pan. Add 50g of butter, the zest and juice of 1 lemon, 1 tbsp rosemary and 2 tsp salt to the pan. Put the lid on the pan and shake it carefully. This will mix all the ingredients and also break the surfaces of the potatoes.

Preheat a baking dish in the oven at 225C. Take the dish out and place some cubes of butter on the dish. The butter will sizzle and melt. Place the potatoes onto the dish and make sure to turn out all of the mashed potato stuff from the pan also onto the baking dish. Arrange the potatoes evenly and drizzle them with olive oil, some salt, some lemon juice and some rosemary and return the baking dish to the oven for an hour to an hour and a half, turning the potatoes occasionally to allow them to brown on all sides.  

The Stuffing:
Remove the crust from a small loaf of bread (wholegrain is nice, but anything goes). Cut the bread into 1cm cubes and spread them evenly out on a surface (a large oven tray covered in baking paper is good). Leave the bread cubes out overnight to dry out completely, or if you don't have time, place them in an oven at 100C to dry them out, but be careful not to toast them too much.

Chop 1 medium onion as finely as possible and place it into a large bowl. Mix the bread cubes with the onions and 1 tbsp dried sage plus 2 tbsp of provencale herbs. Cut about 30g of butter into cubes and place them in with the mixture.  Ladle hot chicken stock into the bowl and mix with a wooden spoon, slowly adding stock and mixing until you have a mixture that is fairly firm and well mixed.  This takes some time. Make sure to not add too much liquid.

Place baking paper onto a plate and shape handfuls of the stuffing into balls and place them on the baking paper. Put the plate in the fridge to allow the balls of stuffing to set (1 hour or so).

Put the stuffing balls onto a greased baking dish and into the oven at 200C-225C and cook until they are crispy on the outside (this can take an hour).

The Chicken:
Mix 100g lightly salted butter with 2 tsp dried thyme and the zest of 1 lemon, plus a little lemon juice together. Push the butter mixture under the skin of the chicken wherever you can put it (mostly where the breast meat is). Put a whole lemon in the cavity. Place on a roasting dish, on top of a couple of halved small onions and place in the middle rack of the oven. Roast at 190C for 1.5 hours (give or take, based on the size of your chicken).
