Tortilla Soup Recipe

Mise en place
6 deboned chicken thighs

4 medium onions, coarsely chopped
4 red/green peppers, coarsely chopped
3 habanero peppers, finely sliced
3 cloves of garlic, finely sliced

Juice and zest of 2 limes

2 corn cobs grilled
2 cans black beans

1 packet tortilla chips

Sour cream
Chipotle sauce

Smoked Paprika/Liquid Smoke

Spice Mix
1 tbsp dried oregano
1 tbsp onion powder
1 tbsp garlic powder
1 tbsp cumin powder
1 tbsp paprika
1 tbsp chili powder
1 tbsp salt

Firing
Lightly salt 6 deboned chicken thighs and sear on a griddle pan (or cook on a
barbeque). Set aside in a bowl to rest for about 5 minutes. Cut the chicken into cubes and put those back into the bowl. Squeeze the juice of 1 lime onto the chicken and mix the chicken with 1-tbsp of the spice mix. Leave to sit while you prepare the next step.

Heat 3 tbsp oil in a large saucepan until hot and fry the peppers on high heat until seared partially. Add the habaneros, garlic and lime zest and fry for half a minute. Add the onions and continue to fry for about 5 minutes.  

Add about 3 tbsp of the spice mix to the pan and stir thorughly for about 1 minute. Add 1 litre of chicken stock and bring up to a simmer.

Add 1 can of sweetcorn (or the corn from 2 grilled corn cobs) and 2 cans of black beans to the pan (include the liquid from the cans). Bring back up to a simmer.

Place 2 handfuls of tortilla chips into a plastic bag and crush them with a
rolling pin. Pour the tortilla chip powder into the soup and stir. Add the
chicken and all juices to the soup and bring it back to a simmer. Add a teaspoon
of smoked paprika and leave the soup to simmer for a few more minutes, until you're happy that the chicken is cooked. Turn off the heat and allow to cool.  When the boiling has stopped, add the juice of 1 lime to the soup. Season and add hot sauce to taste.

Mix sour cream and chipotle sauce in a bowl (you may also add some of the spice mix).

Serve the soup garnished with fresh coriander leaves, tortilla chips and the flavoured sour cream.
